Attention Is All You Need

Ashish Vaswani∗
Google Brain
avaswani@google.com

Noam Shazeer∗
Google Brain
noam@google.com

Niki Parmar∗
Google Research
nikip@google.com

Jakob Uszkoreit∗
Google Research
usz@google.com

Llion Jones∗
Google Research
llion@google.com

Aidan N. Gomez∗ †
University of Toronto
aidan@cs.toronto.edu

Łukasz Kaiser∗
Google Brain
lukaszkaiser@google.com

Illia Polosukhin∗ ‡
illia.polosukhin@gmail.com

Abstract
The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or
convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best
performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention
mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer,
based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions
entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to
be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly
less time to train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English to-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including
ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task,
our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.8 after
training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the
best models from the literature. We show that the Transformer generalizes well to
other tasks by applying it successfully to English constituency parsing both with
large and limited training data.

1 Introduction
Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural networks
in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and
transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Numerous
efforts have since continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder
architectures.

Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output
sequences. Aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden
states ht, as a function of the previous hidden state ht−1 and the input for position t. This inherently
sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer
sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples.

In this work we propose the Transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead
relying entirely on an attention mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output.
The Transformer allows for significantly more parallelization and can reach a new state of the art in
translation quality after being trained for as little as twelve hours on eight P100 GPUs.
